1) Github new user account is created. The name of main branch is also main
2) main branch is created with a README.md file.
3) GIT software is installed. type "exit" in bash terminal to close it when needed.
also run these two commands
git config --global user.name "ab"
git config --global user.email "analytsprojects10@gmail.com"
4) and in folder E:\Anupam\GITProjects\ the "local repository" is to be created (initialize).
so open this foder and do GIT Bash here. Then write git init in bash and hit enter. It will create  a .git folder and the local repository is created(initialize).
5) Now this local repository needs to be linked to Github main repository. So we need to add origin. The remote repository is called origin
write clear in Bash and hit enter to clear screen. Then in Git bash write     git remote add origin "https://github.com/ab10projs/base.git"
If no error retured, then orign is added successfully.
6) Now to fetch all files from remote repository to local repository, perform git pull
In bash write    git pull origin main   "as in github there is main in place of master as repository name"
Now the README is in local repository. 
I renamed main to master in Github, so the remote repository is also now called master.
7) Git as layers that reside between workspace and local repository. these layes are working directory, staging and local repo
To commit changes to local repository, you have to add the changed file to index first. If file is not in index, you can not make changes in local repository
Use command    git add 
To see if files are in index or not, use command      git status
After you have added chnages in index you can use comman    git commit   to make changes in local repository
A git commit is a snapshot of latest changes.
Now add a new file in your working folder and name it File1
Now to see what all files are in index, run command    git status
New files will be called untracked files.
Now add the new file to index by command   git add GIT_Reference_File1.txt
again run   git status    and it will show changes ready to be committed...
8) To commit command is  git commit -m "this is the comment on the changes that will add context of changes"
this will make the changes appear in local repository
9) To show multiple files to be added, create 2 files
git status
git add -A   This will add all files (new and modified) to index
git commit -a -m "commited two files in one go"
10) To see log 
git log

11) branching
brances are of two types (local and remote)
run   git branch firstbranch   this will make a new branch which contains all files of master, as we were in master when command ran
12) To switch to new branch run   git checkout firstbranch
run ls to see all files and folders in new branch
13 Now we are in firstbranch and we will add a new file.
run   git add FileAfterFirstBranchWasCreated
run   git commit -m "this will add the new file to firstbranch only , and not to master branch"

14) Merge
combining work of different branches to one. So now we will merge firstbranch to master
So first checkout to destination branch    git checkout master
now git merge firstbranch

if you now checkout firstbranch and make any change to a file, then the change will be in firstbranch only and not masterbranch
if a file is already tracked, then no need to run  git add fileneamealreadyinIndex   . You can directly run git commit -a -m "comment"
cat filename.txt will show the content on file.

git pull = git fetch + git merge

15) Rebase (to reduce number of branches)



   


